treewide: inject xdg-open into wrappers as $PATH suffix (#181171)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/stdenv/stdenv.chapter.md

# adds `FOOBAR=baz` to `$out/bin/foo`’s environment
makeWrapper $out/bin/foo $wrapperfile --set FOOBAR baz

# Prefixes the binary paths of `hello` and `git`
# and suffixes the binary path of `xdg-utils`.
# Be advised that paths often should be patched in directly
# (via string replacements or in `configurePhase`).
makeWrapper $out/bin/foo $wrapperfile \
  --prefix PATH : ${lib.makeBinPath [ hello git ]} \
  --suffix PATH : ${lib.makeBinPath [ xdg-utils ]}
```

> Packages may expect or require other utilities to be available at runtime. For this reason `makeWrapper` is often used to add packages to a `PATH` environmental variable local to a wrapper. A missing runtime dependency is frustrating, but equally frustrating is a dependency that should only be resolved at runtime but is hardcoded into the wrapper and cannot be overriden by the user. Please take this in to consideration and use the `--prefix` flag to make explicit changes to an env-var and `--suffix` to specify fallback values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Packages may expect or require other utilities to be available at runtime.
`makeWrapper` can be used to add packages to a `PATH` environment variable local to a wrapper.

Use `--prefix` to explicitly set dependencies in `PATH`.

:::{note}
`--prefix` essentially hard-codes dependencies into the wrapper.
They cannot be overridden without rebuilding the package.
:::

If dependencies should be resolved at runtime, use `--suffix` to append fallback values to `PATH`.
```
